---
layout: post
title: fosdem 2024
date: 2024-02-14 23:00:00 +0000
category: blog

---

_04.04.24: I started writing this blog from thet train back from Brussels. The prompt to reflect more broadly on all the conferences I've been able to attend over the past few years, which you can read more about here._ 

# Experiencing (open) culture(s) en Bruxelles: from Transmediale to FOSDEM



I first came to Brussels in March 2022 for the Rendering Research workshop at Transmediale, an annual festival for art and digital culture that usually takes place in Berlin. Miriam Mathiessen, my collaborator at the time was there with me. We learned about , and shared a presentation about [ideologies that shape open knowledge projects](), later publishing an "anti-paper" about open knowledge and maintenance approaches to knowledge-making. 

During that trip, we saw a version of the city that more closely resembled the Bruxelles that Mria (she was ). We made risographs for the first time, and learned that a university website can be [hosted on a wiki](), and that .

In December of that same year, my flight back to North America states from London was delayed for hours, then cancelled for the evening. I spent a night at the hostel near the Brussels airport, and have strong memories of having a beer while Christmas music.

In 2023, I returned in a very different capacity, this time as Community Manager of The Turing Way project. Here, I gave a [talk]() about the project, my first in-person conference talk in quite a few months! 

It was also my first time being at such a big conference since before the pandemic, and I remember the shock I'd had at being in stadium-like spaces for the Keynotes, and X. At the time, there was a photo exhibit outside of the main stage, where X.

It was in the ". 

You see – I'd "been" to FOSDEM previously, just no to this room at the University of Bruxelles. I first attended the online conference in 2022, through the recommendation of Lily Winfree, then the coordinator of the Frictionless Data Reproducible Research Fellowship that I was a part of. 

I had heard a lot about Brussels in the 

FOSDEM is a X

Talks I would love to give
- The tyranny of 'cool' (on disciplinary divides between the arts and sciences)
- Intellectual humility: the missing ingredient in interdisciplinary collaboration