---
layout: post
title: more guiding principles for 2025
date: 2025-01-05 08:00:00 +0000
category: blog
published: true
image: "../assets/img/preview.png"
---
_15.11.2025: Wow, we've made it through 2025! What a year. I had written this draft about 2025 principles at the beginning of the year that I thought I'd just post here.__

For the past year+, [Mirko Febbo](https://mirkofebbo.dev/) and I have been collaborating on works that take our interests in extraction industries and supply chains out of classrooms and into the world. The aim was simple: to develop means of translating these topics into more accessible and engaging mediums that go beyond text and data to immersive experiences, ultimately translating this tacit knowledge into tangible formats. 2024 was a year of experimentation, following the [principles](https://www.aleesteele.com/blog/2024/01/05/principles) I had written about at the beginning of the year.

When I became an Artistic Research Fellow at the School of Commons at the Zurich School of the Arts, we have been investigating the meeting point between the abstraction of poetry, the process of datafication, and extractive processes through audio recordings and sensory practices more specifically. 

Wow, what a year! I can confidently say that I've adhered to habits here, but I'd like to add a few more for 2025.

> **1. Move more: get out of the head and into the body.**

I've been lifting weights! Getting stronger! It's felt great.

> **2. Be mindful of my attention - and train the muscle that allows me to sustain it.**

I had a friend that recently participated in their first Vipassana meditation retreat, a style of meditation I first learned about in 2017 when I joined my first one. It's a good reminder that I'm long overdue for something similar. I aim to participate in another Vipassana meditation retreat this year at some point - one of the most effective methods I've found for self and body awareness.

> **3. Embrace a beginner’s mindset, and create more: frequently and earnestly without too much self-criticism.**

2024 has been full of a lot of creating and experimenting, will 2025 follow suite?

> **4. Don’t be afraid of solitude, but don’t let it relapse into rumination.**

One of my big critiques of life in London was that it is so easy to default to consuming instead creating - attending countless events instead of taking the time to create.

> **5. Hard things don’t last forever - move through the discomfort required to grow.**

And by this, I literally mean move! When you’re stuck in rumination, get out of your mind. Eat well. Treat your body well.

>**6. Be guided by curiosity, not by fear.**

I started off this year with a good dose of fear - fear of change, fear of failure, fear of staying the same. The aim is to move through it, not to be immobilised by it.